skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors afroamerican and african studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
afroamerican and african studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2025

exclusions:

a major in afroamerican and african studies is not open to students with a minor in the department of afroamerican and african studies.

advising

a team of daas faculty and staff is available to advise students. students can make an appointment with an advisor through our department website, contact an advisor by email (daasadvising@umich.edu), or drop by the department during advising hours to meet with an advisor.

students are also encouraged to relax or study in the lemuel johnson center (room 5511) and to attend daas community events where our advisors are often present.

daas majors who want to declare the honors subplan must develop a specific plan for its completion in consultation with the department's student services coordinator.

prerequisites

none.

requirements
minimum credits: 28
complete two of the following three gateway courses:
aas 200 (introduction to african studies)
aas 201 (introduction to african american studies)
aas 202 (introduction to african diasporic studies) 


complete two 300-level or above comparative or global courses that compare different geographical regions, historical periods, political contexts, or cultural contexts.  choose from: aas 304, 309, 322, 323, 324, 346,357, 359, 362, 365, 381, 384, 441


complete four aas electives chosen in consultation with a daas advisor or faculty.  in selecting electives, students may find it helpful to organize their curriculum according to one of the following themes: environmental studies; expressive arts; gender and sexuality studies; global political economies; health; law, politics, and social justice; migrations and humanitarianism; popular culture and new media; or religion and spiritual practice. see the daas website for a comprehensive list of aas courses organized by theme.

two of these electives must be at the 300- or 400-level


students who declare a major in afroamerican and african studies must complete at least one aas ulwr course. this course can be used to fulfill other requirements in the major, and can also be used to fulfill the college ulwr if the student receives a c- or better. additionally, daas honors students may use their honors thesis to meet this requirement (see honors section below for details)


complete the daas-in-action course, aas 498.
distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the aas subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

aas majors who want to pursue honors can do so through an independent study process that leads to an honors capstone. students interested in this opportunity should contact the department no later than the end of their junior year. students wishing to pursue honors must achieve a 3.4 cumulative gpa and a 3.5 gpa in the courses used for their major by the end of the second semester of their senior year.

the department of afroamerican and african studies seeks to optimize the experience of daas students who want to pursue honors. college honors students may also be able to use their capstone thesis to meet the upper-level writing requirement.

daas honors requirements:

1. complete one of the following three (3) upper-level seminars as a topic prospectus for honors capstone:

aas 498: daas-in-action
aas 600: proseminar: interdisciplinary approaches to african studies
aas 601: proseminar: interdisciplinary approaches to african american and diaspora studies

2. complete one independent study course with a faculty mentor the semester following the completion of the upper-level seminar topic prospectus.

3. complete a senior honors capstone (thesis or project in consultation with a faculty mentor).

afroamerican and african studies (major) (winter 2024 - summer 2025)
afroamerican and african studies (major) (fall 2020 - fall 2023)
afroamerican and african studies (major) (fall 2011 - summer 2020)
afroamerican and african studies major (fall 2010-summer 2011)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan