skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors american culture major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
american culture major
advising
department website
american culture (major)
effective winter 2014
advising

students are encouraged to discuss their academic program and related concerns with the american culture department advisor. appointments are scheduled on the american culture department's website under academic advising. for questions of immediate concern or general questions about the major, students may speak with the undergraduate administrator by calling 734.763.1460, emailing ac.inq@umich.edu, or by coming to 3700 haven hall.

prerequisites

none.

requirements
minimum credits: 28

the general program:

core course: amcult 300: practices of american culture.
capstone: amcult 498: capstone seminar in american culture.
breadth requirements: students must also have classes focused on the following breath requirements at the 200-level or higher. depending on content, one course might satisfy two or more of these requirements.
pre-twentieth-century united states
transnationalism, diaspora, and/or empire
women, gender, and/or sexuality
ethnic and/or indigenous studies
electives: students must elect additional courses at the 200 level or higher under american culture (amcult) and/or any of american culture's ethnic studies subject codes (latinoam, asianpam, nativeam, arabam) to reach the 28 minimum credits required for the major. (includes breadth requirement courses).

optional sub-major: ethnic studies

constraints

no more than 9 credits at the 200 level can be counted toward the major.

honors

american culture honors provides an opportunity for majors in american culture and latina/o studies to complete a comprehensive, original independent project under the guidance of a faculty member as the culmination of their undergraduate studies. honors requirements consist of regular american culture or latina/o studies requirements plus the honors requirements.

american culture and latina/o studies majors with a grade-point average of 3.5 or higher in the major may apply for the honors major. students usually apply in the fall term of their junior year.

honors requirements spans three terms.

in the second term of the junior year, the student must successfully complete amcult 398, which involves preparing a thesis prospectus and bibliography and identifying a supervising faculty advisor and a second reader.
in both terms of the senior year, the student will enroll in amcult 493 (3 credits per term) to research and write the thesis.
participation in three friday colloquia. colloquia will focus on peer response to work in progress, as well as on topics of particular usefulness to a given cohort of students. the series will be facilitated by the director of undergraduate studies and is intended to provide seniors with ongoing mentoring.

the primary advisor and the second reader determine the designation of honors (honors, high honors, highest honors).

ethnic studies (sub-major)

effective winter 2021

prerequisites

none.

requirements
minimum credits: 28

to have a notation of the ethnic studies submajor appear on your transcript, you must successfully complete the following in your american culture major elective credits in addition to the other american culture major requirements: 

a) one of the following introductory ethnic studies courses:

aas 201: intro to afro-american studies
latinoam 213: intro to latina/o studies
asianpam 214: intro to asian/pacific islander american studies
arabam 215: intro to arab american studies
arabam 216: intro to american muslims
nativeam 217: intro to native american studies

b) four additional approved ethnic studies courses in consultation with an advisor.

ethnic studies electives may be chosen from any arabam; asianpam; latinoam; nativeam; amcult/aas courses; or approved courses.

american culture (major) (winter 2014 - )
american culture major (winter 2012-fall 2013)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan