skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors anthropology major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
anthropology major
advising
department website

effective fall 2023

exclusions:

students majoring in anthropology may only declare one of the optional sub-majors.


students who elect the anthropology major with a sub-major in medical anthropology may not elect the medical anthropology minor.  

advising

department advisors are available to explain program objectives and requirements and to help with the planning of your program. please visit the advising page of the anthropology website for information on how to schedule an advising appointment. 

additionally, all anthropology faculty members are available for informal discussion about the field of anthropology with students during scheduled office hours (check the department office for times).

prerequisites

none, but anthrcul 101 is recommended.

requirements
minimum credits: 32

at least 32 credits at the 200-level or above are required.

choose at least one course in each of the following subfields:

anthropological archaeology:
anthrarc 282: doing archaeology: essential theory and methods (4)
anthrarc 386: early civilizations (4)
biological anthropology:
anthrbio 201: how humans evolved (4)
linguistic anthropology:
anthrcul 272: language in society (4)
anthrcul 374: language and culture (4)
sociocultural anthropology:
anthrcul 222: the comparative study of culture (4)
anthrcul 226: introduction to historical anthropology (3)
anthrcul 230: fundamentals of social theory (4)
anthrcul 330: culture, thought, and meaning (4)

other credits are taken from anthrarc, anthrbio, or anthrcul courses with a minimum of one course at the 400-level or above.

constraints

a maximum of 6 credits of independent research can be counted toward the major.

residency

at least 20 credits must be completed in residence at the university of michigan.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the anthrarc, anthrbio, and anthrcul subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

students interested in scholarly research are encouraged to consider the honors major. previous participation in the college honors program is not a prerequisite. seniors admitted to the honors major normally elect an independent study or seminar in their special field of interest: biological anthropology (anthrbio 398), archaeology (anthrarc 398) or sociocultural or linguistic anthropology (anthrcul 497). these give students an opportunity for intensive training and research experience; the honors major requires a senior thesis. interested students should consult an anthropology advisor for more information.

teaching certificate

students interested in obtaining a secondary teaching certificate with a teaching minor in anthropology should consult the "teacher certification program" on the lsa website and the school of education office of academic services.

archaeology (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
culture and media (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
environment and conservation (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
medical anthropology (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
politics, law, and economy (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
power, identity, and inequality (sub-major) (fall 2023 - )
anthropology (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2023)
anthropology major (winter 2016-summer 2016)
anthropology major (fall 2014-fall 2015)
anthropology major (fall 2011-summer 2014)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan