skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors asian studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
asian studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2021

exclusions:

asian studies majors must declare a submajor; only one submajor is permitted upon declaration. the submajor will be notated on the student's official transcript. students with an asian studies major may not also declare an asian studies minor. 

advising

appointments are scheduled on the department's online advising calendar. please go to www.lsa.umich.edu/asian for more information.

students who have a formal or informal interest in asian studies are encouraged to consult a department advisor.

grade policies

no course will count toward the major unless the student receives a grade of c- or better.

prerequisites

none

requirements
minimum credits: 34
asian studies language requirement

all majors must have fourth-term proficiency in an asian language taught within the department of asian languages and cultures. majors are strongly encouraged to continue their language training beyond the second-year requirement. the asian language used to meet this requirement will define the student’s regional specialization.

these credits do not count toward the credits needed for the major.

required courses

all courses used toward the major, except those courses used to acquire a second asian language, must be at the 200-level or above.

students must take 1) asian 235: introduction to asian studies; 2) asian 381: junior/senior seminar for majors; and 3) eight or more elective courses. at least four 300-level or above elective asian or asianlan courses (excluding asian 381), one of which must be an asian course at the 400-level or above.

sub-major requirement 

in consultation with a department advisor majors must take at least 4 300-level or above elective asian or asianlan courses (excluding asian 381) focused on or related to the sub-major: chinese studies, japanese studies, korean studies, south asian studies, and southeast asian studies. the asian language used to satisfy the language requirement will determine the individual student’s sub-major.

optional cognate

students have the option of electing one course (up to four credits) from outside of the department of asian languages and cultures.

the plan for the major is designed in consultation with and approved by a department advisor.

other department policies

students interested in focusing their studies on multiple cultures and languages of asia are permitted to declare both the asian studies major and the asian languages and cultures minor. the focus of each declared program must be different and the coursework may not overlap. 

residency

at least 5 courses must be elected on the ann arbor campus or at off-campus sites directed by ann arbor faculty. this includes stdabrd, camp davis, biological station, michigan-in-washington.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the asian and asianlan subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

candidates for honors must complete all regular requirements for the major, and maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.4 and at least 3.5 in courses elected as part of the major. they must also demonstrate the ability to do original work by writing an honors thesis and must elect asian 495: writing an honors thesis. recommendations for the designation of "honors," "high honors," and "highest honors" in asian studies are made on the basis of the student's performance in departmental honors courses and the quality of the student's honors thesis.

asian studies (major) (winter 2021 - summer 2021)
asian studies (major) (fall 2020)
asian studies (major) (fall 2017 - summer 2020)
asian studies (major) (fall 2015 - summer 2017)
asian studies major (fall 2013-summer 2015)
asian studies major (fall 2010-summer 2013)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan