skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors classical languages and literatures major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
classical languages and literatures major
advising
department website

effective fall 2024

advising

students interested in the department's majors in greek, latin, classical languages and literatures, archaeology of the ancient mediterranean, classical civilization or modern greek major should check with the department office for the name of the current advisor. students interested in obtaining teacher certification in latin should see the elementary latin coordinator.

the department recommends that interested students see the department advisors as early as possible in order to plan their programs and avoid unnecessary scheduling conflicts.

students wishing to pursue a minor in classical studies must develop a specific plan for its completion in consultation with the department's designated advisor.

grade policies

the department requires that a student earn a grade of at least c– in all language courses which are prerequisite for subsequent elections. a student should repeat any language course in which a d+ or lower grade is earned and which serves as a prerequisite to other courses which are to be elected. a grade of d+ signifies some achievement but denotes too weak a foundation for subsequent courses.

prerequisites

none.

requirements
minimum credits: 27

the major requires study of both greek and latin; the student chooses one language as the primary language for the purpose of determining requirements. the student takes a minimum of 9 courses (of at least 3 credits each) including:

at least 3 courses at the 400-level or above in the primary language
at least one course at the 400-level or above in the secondary language
at least 3 additional upper-level language courses in either the primary or secondary language
one course selected from archam or clarch (221 or 222), clciv (202 or 302), or history (200 or 201)
at least one upper-level (300- or 400-level) course in greek or roman civilization, archaeology, or history (minimum 3 credits)

 

constraints

three credits of independent study (greek 499 and latin 499) may be used with written approval of the undergraduate advisor.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the archam or clarch, clciv, clling, greek, greekmod, and latin subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the department offers honors in each of the six majors. interested students who have a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.4 should contact their department advisor to discuss an honors thesis no later than the winter term of their junior year.

it is the student's responsibility to find a suitable faculty advisor to oversee the thesis project. this project and its components are to be decided collectively by the student and the advisor at the end of the junior year. we encourage students to think creatively about the approach to their research and thesis project. thesis advisors must sign off on a student's thesis project proposal.

at the end of the thesis project, the candidate must offer an oral defense of this work to a committee comprised of the thesis advisor and another faculty member, and present their research findings at the classical studies honors symposium.

additional requirements for honors candidates are specified with each major.

honors in classical languages and literatures

in addition to the above requirements, students pursuing an honors major must satisfy the following:

3.4 minimum cumulative gpa; 3.5 minimum major gpa;
completion of an honors thesis and oral defense in coordination with a classics faculty member
completion of one additional greek or latin course at the 420-level or above (clciv 480 & greek/latin 495 do not satisfy this requirement)
clciv 480 section titled "research seminar" (fall term)

students may also elect greek or latin 495 (taken in the primary language) for 1-2 credits in the fall and 1-3 credits in the winter but are not required to do so.

classical languages and literatures (major) (winter 2023 - summer 2024)
classical languages and literatures (major) (winter 2021 - fall 2022)
classical languages and literatures (major) (fall 2018 - fall 2020)
classical languages and literatures (major) (fall 2017 - summer 2018)
classical languages and literatures (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2017)
classical languages and literatures major (winter 2016-summer 2016)
classical languages and literatures major (fall 2012-fall 2015)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan