skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors classical civilization major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
classical civilization major
advising
department website

effective fall 2024

advising

students interested in the department's majors in greek, latin, classical languages and literatures, archaeology of the ancient mediterranean, classical civilization or modern greek major should check with the department office for the name of the current advisor. students interested in obtaining teacher certification in latin should see the elementary latin coordinator. 

the department recommends that interested students see the department advisors as early as possible in order to plan their programs and avoid unnecessary scheduling conflicts.

students wishing to pursue a minor in classical studies must develop a specific plan for its completion in consultation with the department's designated advisor.

grade policies

the department requires that a student earn a grade of at least c– in all language courses which are prerequisite for subsequent elections. a student should repeat any language course in which a d+ or lower grade is earned and which serves as a prerequisite to other courses which are to be elected. a grade of d+ signifies some achievement but denotes too weak a foundation for subsequent courses.

prerequisites

a minimum of one course from the following choices, for a total of 4 credits. 

clciv 101, 202
history 200, 201
gtbooks 191
clarch or archam 221, 222
requirements
minimum credits: 24

a minimum of eight courses of at least 3 credits each.  knowledge of greek or latin is not required for this program but is highly recommended.

one clciv course at the 200-level (minimum 3 credits). if the pre-req emphasizes greek culture, we encourage students to take a roman culture class and vice versa.
six courses (minimum 18 credits) in classical civilization, with at least three at the 300-level and at least two at the 400-level. three of the six must belong to one of the following clusters: a) language, literature and reception; b) history and archaeology; or c) religion and philosophy.  greek and latin language courses at the third term or higher may be counted towards any number of the cluster courses or as one of the three additional courses (with prior approval from the major advisor).
one upper level course in a cognate program or department may also count towards a cluster course (with prior approval from the major advisor). any such substitutions simultaneously apply to the overall six-course requirement.
the "capstone seminar" - clciv 480 (advanced discussion and writing of a 12-15 page research paper on a topic in classical civilization; 3 credits total). students must register for section 001 (2 credits) and section 002 (1 credit). classical civilization honors thesis students needing to fulfill this requirement in their senior year may substitute an alternate upper-level classical civilization course for section 001 in consultation with the classical civilization advisor.

 

clciv courses by cluster

list of courses that may be counted towards each cluster. note that this list is not meant to be exhaustive, and students should consult with the major advisor about selecting courses for their chosen cluster.

a) language, literature and reception
ancient greek at the 300- and 400-level
latin at the 200-, 300- and 400-level
clciv 328: ancient languages and scripts
clciv 371: greek sport
clciv 385: greek mythology
clciv 464: ancient epic
clciv 473: roman decadence
greekmod 325: athens, past and present
greekmod 340: travels to greece


b) history and archaeology
clciv 302: the roman republic
clciv 365: the age of alexander the great
clciv 372: roman sport
clciv 375: war in greek and roman civilization
clciv 376: emperors of rome
clciv 382: food in the ancient world
clciv 392/hist 292: ancient medicine
clciv 468: greeks, romans and egyptians
300- and 400-level clarch/archam courses also count towards this cluster
greek and latin language courses with a history focus (e.g. herodotus, sallust)


c) religion and philosophy
clciv 293 ancient world ethics
clciv 347 roman religion
clciv 381: magic & witchcraft
clciv 389: the philosophy of happiness
clciv 475: socrates: the man & the myth
clciv 466: greek religion
clciv 476: pagans and christians
clciv 388/phil 388: survey of ancient greek philosophy
greek and latin language courses with a religion/philosophy focus (e.g. plato, lucretius)

 

 
 

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the archam or clarch, clciv, clling, greek, greekmod, and latin subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the department offers honors in each of the six majors. interested students who have a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.4 should contact their department advisor to discuss an honors thesis no later than the winter term of their junior year.

it is the student's responsibility to find a suitable faculty advisor to oversee the thesis project. this project and its components are to be decided collectively by the student and the advisor at the end of the junior year. we encourage students to think creatively about the approach to their research and thesis project. thesis advisors must sign off on a student's thesis project proposal.

at the end of the thesis project, the candidate must offer an oral defense of this work to a committee comprised of the thesis advisor and another faculty member, and present their research findings at the classical studies honors symposium.

additional requirements for honors candidates are specified with each major.

honors in classical civilization

in addition to the above requirements, students pursuing an honors major must satisfy the following:

3.4 minimum cumulative gpa; 3.5 minimum major gpa
completion of an honors thesis and oral defense in coordination with a classics faculty member
completion of one additional cognate course (chosen in consultation with the thesis advisor) deemed relevant to the thesis
fourth term language proficiency in either ancient greek or latin.
clciv 480 section titled "research seminar" (in addition to a clciv 480 capstone seminar already required for majors)

students may also elect clciv 495 for 1-2 credits in the fall and 1-3 credits in the winter but are not required to do so.

classical civilization (major) (fall 2023 - summer 2024)
classical civilization (major) (winter 2023 - summer 2023)
classical civilization (major) (winter 2021 - fall 2022)
classical civilization (major) (fall 2018 - fall 2020)
classical civilization (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2018)
classical civilization major (fall 2012-summer 2016)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan