skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors computer science major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
computer science major
advising
department website

effective winter 2026

grade policies

grades of c or better must be achieved in all courses taken to satisfy computer science requirements. 

prerequisites

the lsa computer science (cs) major consists of 4 prerequisite courses, in addition to the requirements for the major. the prerequisite courses are eecs 203 or math 465* or math 565*, eecs 280, and two approved math courses. approved math courses include math 115, 116, 214, 215, and 216. check with the department for an up-to-date list. eecs 203 or math 465* or math 565*, eecs 280, and one approved math course must be completed prior to declaration, while the second approved math course may be completed after declaration. grades of c or better must be achieved in all prerequisite courses.


performance in these classes is indicative of student aptitude for the computer science program, and students who do not perform well are encouraged to meet with a cs-lsa advisor. (*note that math 465/565 require significantly more mathematical background than does eecs 203. speak to an advisor before selecting these courses.)


due to capacity constraints, students who are admitted to the university of michigan in fall 2023 or later must first be selected for the cs major before they can declare the major.

requirements

at least 26 credits must be upper-level. 

core courses:
a. computer science: eecs 281, 370, 376
b. probability and statistics course: check with the department for a list of approved probability and statistics courses.
capstone course (which may not be counted as cs upper level technical elective below): senior thesis (eecs 443) or major design experience course (check with the department for current list of approved mde courses).
upper-level cs technical electives: 15 credits. check with the department for an up-to-date list of approved upper-level cs elective courses. the department can suggest groupings of electives that pursue different tracks such as software development, robotics, or bioinformatics, among various others.

comprehensive and up-to-date information about the computer science program can be found on the computer science (college of lsa) webpage. 

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the eecs and cse subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

students wishing to complete an honors major in computer science must have earned an overall gpa of 3.4 or higher (as required by lsa for honors), and must have a final major gpa in computer science of 3.5 or higher. students must complete the senior thesis course (eecs 443), write a thesis, and make an oral presentation of the thesis results, with the faculty advisor and a second faculty member determining whether the thesis is of a quality that qualifies the students for honors.

computer science (major) (winter 2025 - fall 2025)
computer science (major) (fall 2024)
computer science (major) (fall 2022 - summer 2024)
computer science (major) (fall 2012 - summer 2022)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan