skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors english major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
english major
advising
department website

effective fall 2023

exclusions:

students who elect a major in english may not also elect minors in english or english-creative writing.

advising

students are encouraged to discuss their academic program and related concerns with an english department advisor. appointments are scheduled on the english department's website under academic advising. for questions of immediate concern or general questions about the major, students may speak with the undergraduate administrator by phoning 734.764.6330 or by coming to 3187 angell hall.

grade policies

all courses counted toward the major must be completed with a grade of c- or better.

prerequisites

there is no prerequisite course for declaring the english major. we recommend that students begin with a 200-level foundations & methods course. students should schedule an appointment with an english advisor to declare the major.

requirements
minimum credits: 27

students in the general program must successfully complete 27 credits in english courses. students must take a total of two courses (6 credits) from each of the following three categories (foundations & methods, regions, time) with no option to “double-count” any courses: 

1. foundations & methods (two courses, 6 credits total) 

one 200-level course from the approved list (3 credits)
one 300- or 400-level course (3 credits)

2. regions (two 300- or 400-level courses, 6 credits total)
    students must take one course (3 credits) from both of the following subcategories:

the americas, the united kingdom, australia, new zealand, and ireland;
africa, asia, the middle east, and the pacific islands. 

3. time (two 300- or 400-level courses, 6 credits total)
    students must take one course (3 credits) from two of the following three subcategories:

medieval and early modern
18th and 19th centuries
modern and contemporary

4. electives

the remaining 9 credits must be completed with electives. the department will offer in any one term a considerable range of courses designed to meet these requirements and electives. a list of which courses meet a given requirement will be available each year online at https://lsa.umich.edu/english/undergraduate/english-major.html or from an english department advisor.

 

approved 200-level courses:

english 201: readings in u.s. literatures: "american" and other fictions

english 203: intro to rhetoric

english 215: great women writers

english 216: intro to disability studies

english 221: literature outside the classroom

english 230: intro to short story and novel

english 232: intro to visual culture

english 235: intro to autobiography

english 240: poetry for non-majors

english 242: interdisciplinary studies in english

english 245: intro to drama and theatre

english 250: intro to language studies

english 258: bible as literature

english 260: intro to british literature

english 267: shakespeare and his world

english 270: intro to american lit

english 274: intro to afro-american lit

english 275: intro world lit in english

english 280: intro to digital cultures

english 282: native american literature

english 285: intro to 20th c lit

english 290: topics in lang & lit

english 292: themes in lang & lit (mini-course)

english 293: great works of lit (mini-course)

constraints
a total of 6 credits of 200-level coursework can count toward the major. because students must take one 200-level foundations & methods course to fulfill the foundations & methods requirement, they can count one additional 200-level course towards the major. that second 200-level course can either satisfy the time or regions requirement or count as an elective.
a total of three 300/400-level creative/expository writing courses (no more than 9 credits) can count toward the major. students may use up to two approved 300/400-level creative/expository writing courses (no more than 6 credits) to fulfill the foundations & methods, time, or regions requirements. students may use up to two 300/400-level creative/expository writing courses (no more than 6 credits) as electives. 300-level courses that satisfy the foundations & methods, time, or regions requirements will be listed on the english requirements page: https://lsa.umich.edu/english/undergraduate/courserequirem.html
a maximum of six upper level independent study credits may be used to count toward english elective credits. independent study credits cannot be used toward the following requirements: foundations and methods, regions, and time.
with written prior approval by the undergraduate administrator, courses elected in other departments or programs may on occasion be used as part of a plan for the major.
other department policies

upper-level writing requirement

majors in english may meet this requirement by taking english 325, 398, 425, 428, or 496. for those in the honors and creative writing programs, the writing requirement is met within their curriculum, which culminates in the supervised composition of the senior thesis.

creative writing courses

students interested in the department's offerings in creative writing should begin with english 223, an introduction to the reading and writing of modern poetry and prose fiction and to the workshop method of critiquing student writing. english 223 is a prerequisite to english 323: creative writing in fiction and 324: creative writing in poetry. students may take english 323 or english 324 as a prerequisite to take english 423: advanced creative writing in fiction and english 425: advanced creative writing in poetry. students must complete all prerequisite courses with a grade of c- or better.

residency

students must take at least 18 credits of u-m english department classes for the major. the additional 12 credits may be transfer credits, though only one transfer course may count towards the core requirements.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the english subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

capstone program in research

joining the english department's capstone program in research means becoming a part of a small, intensely committed group of teachers and students all working toward achieving excellence in the related disciplines of reading, understanding, and writing about texts. capstone program in research courses and the program at large place a premium on discussion, on sustained elaboration of ideas inside and outside the classroom, on conceiving of projects in complex and engaging ways, on learning to do research, and on presenting the fruits of that research in expressive, lucid prose.

students interested in the program should apply, if possible, during the winter term of their sophomore year, or during the fall term of their junior year at the latest. the application consists of a cover sheet; a transcript; a 500-word statement of purpose; and a writing sample. applications are due at the end of the seventh week of each term. transfer students may apply to the program on a rolling basis, and are highly encouraged to take english 397 regardless of whether this is taken during their senior year. for the capstone program in research, if students meet both lsa honors (3.4) and departmental (3.5) gpa requirements at the time of application, the department will declare the honors sub plan. students who do not meet these requirements will still be able to complete the thesis but will not be conferred an honors designation.

students take a course in literary theory, usually english 390 or 490, preferably during their junior year. for students enrolled in the capstone program in research, english 390 or english 490 may also satisfy the 300- or 400-level foundations & methods requirement. this instance is the only “double-counting” allowed in the new major.
students take a seminar in research methods (english 397). it is recommended that this be done during the winter term of the student's junior year.
students write a thesis of approximately sixty pages in length during the senior year - a project that is designed to be the single most important, most meaningful piece of work students undertake as english majors at the university. students write most of their thesis in a required year-long course, "research and thesis writing" (english 495/496). students are guided throughout much of their senior year by a faculty advisor chosen early in that year. the completed thesis is due in mid-march of the senior year.
during graduation weekend, students will participate in a symposium, at which students make brief presentations of their theses to interested faculty, friends, and family.
honors will be awarded, as warranted, on the basis of the thesis.

capstone program in creative writing

english majors who wish to specialize in the writing of poetry or prose fiction may, in the winter term of their junior year, apply to the capstone program in creative writing, which is an optional path to a bachelor of arts degree in english. students in the program take the creative writing workshops (223, 323/324, 423/424), and, in their last term, compile a major manuscript of poetry or prose fiction while working closely with the creative-writing faculty in a tutorial (english 428). for the capstone program in creative writing, if students meet both lsa honors (3.4) and departmental (3.5) gpa requirements at the time of application, the department will declare the honors sub plan. students who do not meet these requirements will still be able to complete the thesis but will not be conferred an honors designation.

the program is small and highly selective; however, students not enrolled in the program may still pursue their interest in creative writing by applying to the appropriate upper-level workshops.
students must complete a course with a grade of c- or better to have it count toward the major.
honors will be awarded, as warranted, on the basis of the thesis.
teaching certificate

english majors in any of the programs above may also apply to be granted a teaching certificate. students in the general program must elect, in addition to the pattern of courses there prescribed, english 305 and english 405 in addition to the courses required for their program.

the general requirements for a teaching certificate are described elsewhere in this bulletin, and are available from the school of education teacher education office, 1228 school of education building. application to the certificate program itself must be made through the school of education. the deadline is mid january for the following academic term. please check their website: www.soe.umich.edu/.

english (major) (fall 2022 - summer 2023)
english (major) (winter 2018 - summer 2022)
english (major) (fall 2017)
english (major) (winter 2016 - summer 2017)
english major (fall 2011 - fall 2015)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan