skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors international studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
international studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2025

exclusions:

international studies majors must declare a sub-plan. the sub-plan will be notated on the student's official transcript. students majoring in international studies may only declare one sub-plan.

advising

the major in international studies offers students the opportunity to take a set of courses across departments to bring multiple methods and concepts together to address global problems. international studies students will be exposed to topics such as global health trends, human rights and refugees, cultural homogenization and hybridization, environmental and energy crises, terrorism, transnational social movements, immigration, and the spread of technology. the major will draw on methods developed in specific disciplines such as economics, sociology, psychology, comparative literature, political science, anthropology, and history, and some methods emerging from cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields. for detailed information about the major, please visit the program in international and comparative studies (pics) website.

international studies advisors will assist students in developing a program of study. students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment with an international studies advisor to discuss international studies prerequisite courses, requirements, declaring, academic planning, course selection, registration, senior releases, and other matters of concern. advising for the pics honors plan is provided by the coordinator of experiential, independent, & honors education for the program in international and comparative studies (pics). for more information, visit the pics advising page.

grade policies

students must earn a c- or better in all courses used to meet the requirements of the major, which are included in the minimum 34 credits and the gpa. courses used to meet the pics language requirement are not included in the minimum 34 credits required for the major nor in the major gpa.

prerequisites
intlstd 101: introduction to international studies with a minimum grade of c-.
students declaring the political economy & development (ped) sub-plan must complete econ 101: principles of economics i with a minimum grade of c.
students must have enrolled in or completed 4th-term language proficiency.

to declare: students must be enrolled in or have completed intlstd 101. additionally, students pursuing the ped sub-plan must be enrolled in or have completed econ 101 in order to declare.

requirements
minimum credits: 34

pics language requirement for the major:

sixth-term proficiency in a language other than english must be obtained prior to graduation; therefore, students should begin the language sequence early.

language study is a vital part of any liberal arts education and students who major in international studies should be well prepared to work in environments overseas, or in companies or organizations that interact regularly with people from other countries. the pics language requirement will benefit students in broadening their skills and their vision of the world. language fluency signals a deep level of expertise and commitment to international affairs to potential employers and graduate admissions committees.

please see pics website for further information about the sixth-term language requirement.

sub-plans and major course requirements:

international security, norms & cooperation (isnc)
political economy & development (ped)
comparative culture & identity (cci)
global environment & health (geh)
constraints

courses used to meet the core, research design, regional, sub-plan, and elective requirements may not be used toward more than one requirement within the major; however, they may be shared with other majors and minors in accordance with lsa policies. courses used to meet the pics language requirement may not be used toward the requirements within the major. 

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the intlstd subject area may not be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. exception: the major prerequisite of intlstd 101/geog 145 may be used in lsa distribution.

honors

students who have declared a major in international studies and are admitted to the additional honors sub-plan must have an overall gpa of 3.5, a major gpa of 3.5 or higher, and complete a senior honors thesis.

during their junior year, students interested in writing a thesis will enroll in intlstd 390 to prepare for senior year. typically, intlstd 390 will be offered in both the fall and winter terms. intlstd 390 should be completed with an a minimum grade to ensure the skills and ideas needed for a successful thesis are developed. enrollment in and/or completion of intlstd 390 is required for admittance to the honors sub-plan. students apply for the honors sub-plan in the winter term of their junior year. admission decisions will be announced shortly after the end of the winter term. students taking intlstd 390 before their junior year may be admitted provisionally, with final admission contingent on maintaining the required gpa through the end of junior year.  the pics coordinator of experiential, independent, & honors education will meet once with students at the end of their junior year, to review requirements, answer questions, and discuss research practices and principles.

applications to the honors sub-plan will be evaluated on the following criteria:

overall and major gpa, 3.5
overall performance in intlstd 390
quality of the research proposal
success at obtaining a faculty advisor

during their senior year, students will enroll in intlstd 498 during fall term and intlstd 499 during winter term, both led by pics’s coordinator of experiential, independent, & honors education. the instructor will regularly meet with students as a collective and individually during their senior year. each student will have an oral thesis defense in a meeting with the faculty member serving as the thesis advisor and the coordinator of experiential, independent, & honors education.

the thesis will be a minimum of 50 pages long. students are responsible for obtaining a faculty expert to serve as a thesis advisor. the advisor and topic must be approved by the honors committee. the coordinator of experiential, independent, and honors education will determine student grades on the thesis and the level of honors earned in consultation with the faculty member serving as the thesis advisor.

the coordinator of experiential, independent, & honors education provides advising for the honors plan.

international security, norms & cooperation (isnc) (sub-major) (fall 2025 - )
political economy & development (ped) (sub-major) (fall 2025 - )
comparative culture & identity (cci) (sub-major) (fall 2025 - )
global environment & health (geh) (sub-major) (fall 2025 - )
political economy & development (ped) (sub-major) (winter 2021 - summer 2025)
international studies (major) (winter 2021 - summer 2025)
international security, norms & cooperation (isnc) (sub-major) (fall 2020 - summer 2025)
international studies (major) (fall 2020)
political economy & development (ped) (sub-major) (fall 2020)
comparative culture & identity (cci) (sub-major) (fall 2020 - summer 2025)
global environment & health (geh) (sub-major) (fall 2020 - summer 2025)
global environment & health (geh) (sub-major) (fall 2016 - summer 2020)
comparative culture & identity (cci) (sub-major) (fall 2016 - summer 2020)
international studies (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2020)
international security, norms & cooperation (isnc) (sub-major) (fall 2016 - summer 2020)
political economy & development (ped) (sub-major) (fall 2016 - summer 2020)
international studies major (winter 2016-summer 2016)
international studies major (fall 2015)
international studies major (fall 2014-summer 2015)
international studies major (winter 2014-summer 2014)
international studies major (fall 2013)
international studies major (fall 2012-summer 2013)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan