skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors italian major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
italian major
advising
department website

effective winter 2026

advising

the department offers majors in french, italian, romance languages & literatures, and spanish. it offers minors in french, italian, portuguese, and spanish.

appointments are scheduled online or at the department office, 4108 modern languages building, (734) 764-5344.

grade policies

italian majors whose coursework includes any courses in the range of italian 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

prerequisites

italian 230, 232, 233, or 410, or the equivalent.

italian majors whose coursework includes any courses in the range of italian 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

requirements
minimum credits: 30
a minimum of 30 credits in italian courses numbered italian 235 and above.
12 credits must be conducted in the target language of italian. of these, at least one course must be at the 200-level beyond 233, at least one at the 300-level, and at least one at the 400-level.
three credits may be accepted from courses in a cognate field, selected in consultation with and approved by the department advisor.
italian 410 (italian for spanish speakers) does not count toward the italian requirements for the major.
residency

a minimum of 15 of the required 30 credits must be taken either in residence or through a study abroad program affiliated with the university of michigan.  at least one course at either the 300- or 400-level, taught in italian, must be taken in rll at the ann arbor campus.

italian majors are encouraged to consider study abroad programs with an emphasis on italian immersion. for information on receiving credit for study abroad in other programs, consult the department advisor.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the catalan, french, italian, portug, romlang, romling, and spanish subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

qualified students may be admitted to a program of advanced study during their junior year (or at the beginning of the senior year following foreign study), leading to the degree of bachelor of arts with honors in italian. admission to senior-level honors work in italian is by application only (forms are available on the department website at www.lsa.umich.edu/rll). a grade point average of at least 3.4 in all courses, as well as a 3.5 in all italian courses, is required for admission and for graduation with honors in italian.  the honors committee expects applicants to demonstrate superior ability for their level in both oral and written italian, and to present evidence of serious interest in research.

italian honors majors are required to complete 33 credits of coursework and successfully defend a thesis:

course requirements:

all regular italian major requirements must be completed (30 credits) with 3 additional credits at the 300 level or above.  6 of the required 33 credits will consist of italian 491 and 492, senior honors courses, normally taken in the fall and winter terms, respectively, of a student’s senior year.

thesis requirement:

composition of a thesis, in italian, incorporating the results of individual research, demonstrating a substantial piece of work; and

a presentation and discussion of the thesis and of an agreed upon set of related readings with the student's faculty advisor and one other faculty reader.

working under the direction of a faculty member who serves as thesis director, the student will research the thesis, complete a bibliography and prospectus, and begin drafting the writing process while enrolled in italian 491. in the following academic term the student will enroll in italian 492 and complete the thesis and its presentation and discussion.

italian (major) (fall 2022 - fall 2025)
italian (major) (winter 2021 - summer 2022)
italian (major) (fall 2019 - fall 2020)
italian (major) (fall 2018 - summer 2019)
italian (major) (fall 2017 - summer 2018)
italian (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2017)
italian major (winter 2013- summer 2016)
italian major (winter 2010-fall 2012)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan