skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors judaic studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
judaic studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2021

exclusions:

students can pursue both a judaic studies and a middle east studies major as long as the student does not elect to pursue both a middle east studies hebrew submjaor and a judaic studies hebrew sub plan. students pursuing a middle east studies hebrew submajor or judaic studies hebrew subplan cannot use the hebrew credits used to fulfill the hebrew submajor/subplan to also fulfill requirements for the judaic studies or middle east studies major.

advising

a student who is interested in a major in judaic studies should meet with the major advisor as early as possible to plan a coherent course of study. please email js-student-services@umich.edu or call 734-615-6097 to schedule an appointment.

prerequisites

none

requirements
minimum credits: 28
core. at least one of the following
judaic 205: what is judaism
judaic 210 sources of jewish history
judaic 281: jews in the modern world
electives: all courses must be at the 200-level or above with a judaic listing or be approved by a major advisor.
upper level credit requirement at least 15 credits must be at 300 or 400 level; at least one of these courses must be at the 400 level.

hebrew sub plan: optional sub plan for judaic studies majors

prerequisite of first year proficiency in hebrew achieved through coursework (hebrew 102) or placement examination.
judaic studies hebrew sub plan language requirement (6 credit minimum taken in residence): one 200 level course can count toward the language requirement (but does not count toward the 28 credit major).  at least one hebrew language course must be taken at the 300-level or above 

language:

200 level or above language courses in less commonly taught languages (such as yiddish, ladino, or biblical hebrew) can count toward the 28 credit major (up to 8 credits) if the student meets lsa's language requirement in another language.
constraints
advanced hebrew language courses (300-level and 400-level) may count toward the major.
students may not use more than one independent study course as an elective unless approved by the judaic studies advisor.
residency

fifteen of the 28 credits must be elected in residence unless special permission is given by the major advisor.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the judaic, ladino, and yiddish subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the center offers an honors plan to qualified judaic studies students. application for an honors plan is usually made at the beginning of the third year. participation requires a 3.5 grade point average. graduation with honors is recommended for students who complete all college and judaic studies graduation requirements, maintain a 3.5 gpa, and write a substantial honors thesis which is judged worthy of honors designation by the thesis advisor and at least one other faculty reader. an honors plan is not limited to students who have been in the college honors program in the first and second years. for more information about honors, email ask.honors@umich.edu or call 734.764.6274.

judaic studies (major) (fall 2020 - summer 2021)
judaic studies (major) (winter 2020 - summer 2020)
judaic studies (major) (fall 2016 - fall 2019)
judaic studies major (fall 2015-summer 2016)
judaic studies major (fall 2012-summer 2015)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan