skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors latin american and caribbean studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
latin american and caribbean studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2016

advising

the center for latin american and caribbean studies offers an interdepartmental program of study through a major in latin american and caribbean studies which is designed to provide students with a rigorous, multi-disciplinary approach to the study of latin america and the caribbean.

international institute (ii) undergraduate academic advisors will assist students in developing a program of study. students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment with an ii undergraduate advisor to discuss prerequisite courses, requirements, declaring, academic planning, course selection, registration, senior releases, and other matters of concern. for more information, visit the ii advising page.

prerequisites

none.

requirements
minimum credits: 30

lacs language requirement for the major. proficiency in spanish [spanish 277 or rclang 294 or equivalent] or portuguese [portug 232 or equivalent] should be achieved as early as possible in the program. students are encouraged to go beyond this, either with further work in the language chosen, or by achieving competency in the other major language.

language requirement courses are not included in the minimum 30 credits required for the major nor in the major gpa.

at least 20 credits must be at the 300-400 level.

required courses. students must include at least one course from each of the following areas of study:

anthropology:
anthrcul 319: latin american society and culture, anthrcul 414: introduction to caribbean societies and cultures, i, or an upper-level anthropology course on latin america, approved by an advisor.
history:
history 347: latin america: the colonial period or history 348: latin america: the national period, or an upper-level history course on latin america, approved by an advisor.
literature:
spanish 381: survey of latin american literature, i, spanish 382: survey of latin american literature, ii, or an upper-level course in latin american literature, approved by an advisor.
politics and economy:
spanish 438: economy and politics in latin america/spain, or an upper-level course in latin american politics and/or economy, approved by an advisor.

note: courses in this area are usually found in the departments of political science, sociology, and spanish.

elective courses. the remainder of the 30 credits may be drawn from courses, from any department, that deal with latin america and the caribbean; including up to 4 credits of quechua or nahuatl language. study abroad coursework may be used toward the major with approval from an advisor.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the lacs subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

application for an honors major is usually made at the beginning of the third year. participation requires a 3.5 gpa in all lacs coursework and a 3.4 overall gpa. graduation with honors is recommended for students who complete all college and lacs graduation requirements, maintain a 3.5 major gpa, 3.4 overall gpa, and write a substantial lacs senior thesis that is judged worthy of honors designation by the thesis advisor and at least one other faculty reader. an honors major is not limited to students who have been in the college honors program in the first and second years. lacs honors candidates will enroll in lacs 399 during their thesis writing semester. more details about the senior thesis and about applying for lacs honors may be obtained from the department advisor.

latin american and caribbean studies major (fall 2011-summer 2016)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan