skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors latin language and literature major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
latin language and literature major
advising
department website

effective fall 2024

advising

students interested in the department's major programs in greek, latin, classical languages and literatures, archaeology of the ancient mediterranean, classical civilization, or modern greek should check with the department office for the name of the current advisor. students interested in obtaining a teacher certification in latin should see the elementary latin coordinator.

the department recommends that interested students see the department advisors as early as possible in order to plan their programs and avoid unnecessary scheduling conflicts.

grade policies

the department requires that a student earn a grade of at least c– in all language courses which are prerequisite for subsequent elections. a student should repeat any language course in which a d+ or lower grade is earned and which serves as a prerequisite to other courses which are to be elected. a grade of d+ signifies some achievement but denotes too weak a foundation for subsequent courses.

prerequisites

one of the following: latin 231 (honors section) or 232 or 233, or latin 294; or special placement examination.

requirements
minimum credits: 24

requires a minimum of 8 courses (of at least 3 credits each) including:

one introductory course selected from archam or clarch 222, clciv 202 or 302, or history 201
six courses in latin at the 300-level or above; at least one of the courses must be above latin 410
at least one upper-level (300- or 400-level) course in roman civilization, archaeology, or history (minimum of 3 credits; course must be above clciv 302)

 

constraints

three credits of independent study (latin 499) may be used with written approval of the undergraduate advisor.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the archam/clarch, clciv, clling, greek, greekmod, and latin subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the department offers honors in each of the six majors. interested students who have a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.4 should contact their department advisor to discuss an honors thesis no later than the winter term of their junior year.

it is the student's responsibility to find a suitable faculty advisor to oversee the thesis project. this project and its components are to be decided collectively by the student and the advisor at the end of the junior year. we encourage students to think creatively about the approach to their research and thesis project. thesis advisors must sign off on a student's thesis project proposal.

at the end of the thesis project, the candidate must offer an oral defense of this work to a committee comprised of the thesis advisor and another faculty member, and present their research findings at the classical studies honors symposium.

honors in latin language and literature

in addition to the above requirements, students pursuing an honors major must satisfy the following:

3.4 minimum cumulative gpa; 3.5 minimum major gpa
completion of an honors thesis and oral defense in coordination with a classics faculty member
completion of one additional latin course at the 420-level or above (clciv 480 & latin 495 do not satisfy this requirement)
clciv 480: studying antiquity, section titled "research seminar" (fall term)

students may also elect latin 495 for 1-2 credits in the fall and 1-3 credits in the winter but are not required to do so.

teaching certificate

students interested in a secondary school teaching certificate with a teaching major or minor in latin must have the elementary latin coordinator approve their program of study.

teaching major in latin.

thirty credits which must include:

fifteen credits in latin beyond 232, of which 12 must be at the 400-level or above; neither latin 499 nor 599 may be counted toward the teaching major without permission of the teaching certificate advisor;
one course in latin composition;
one course in classical archaeology;
one course in roman history;
one course in linguistics.

teaching minor in latin.

twenty credits which must include:

twelve credits in latin beyond latin 232, of which 9 must be at the 400-level or above. neither latin 499 nor 599 may be counted toward the teaching minor without permission of the teaching certificate advisor;
one course in roman history;
one course in linguistics.

the elementary latin coordinator has the authority to modify departmental requirements for a teaching major or minor in special cases and in keeping with the general requirements for the teaching certificate.

latin language and literature (major) (winter 2023 - summer 2024)
latin language and literature (major) (winter 2021 - fall 2022)
latin language and literature (major) (fall 2020)
latin language and literature (major) (fall 2018 - summer 2020)
latin language and literature (major) (fall 2016 - summer 2018)
latin language and literature major (winter 2016-summer 2016)
latin language and literature major (fall 2012-fall 2015)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan