skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors linguistics major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
linguistics major
advising
department website

effective fall 2023

advising

advising appointments can be made here or by contacting linguistics-ssc@umich.edu

prerequisites

none; ling 111, 209, or 210 are recommended. (one of 209 or 210 may count toward the major, but not both)

requirements
minimum credits: 30

minimum credits: 30

the linguistics major requires a total of 30 credits, subject to the constraints below.  all credits must be at the 300 level or higher, except for either ling 209 or 210, one of which may count towards the major.

required core courses (12 credits). all majors are required to take the following four courses in the linguistics department. the coursework in ling 313, 315, and 316 should be completed as soon as possible, to ensure that all students gain a solid understanding of linguistics before electing further courses.

ling 313: sound patterns. this course explores two fundamental aspects of sounds in language: speech sounds as physical entities (phonetics) and speech sounds as linguistic units (phonology).
ling 315: introduction to syntax. this course examines the rule systems whereby words are organized into phrases and phrases into sentences in natural languages.
ling 316: aspects of meaning. this course introduces students to the study of meaning in language (semantics).
ling 497: capstone seminar. this seminar brings previous coursework, particularly the other required courses, to bear on a specific topic that may vary by term. ling 313, 315, and 316 are prerequisites for 497, but may be taken concurrently with the instructor’s permission.

students may request to replace a core course with an equivalent advanced, transfer, or study abroad course, but such substitutions are not guaranteed.

electives (18 credits). beyond the four core courses, majors fill out their program of 30 total credits, in consultation with a linguistics advisor, using courses from the categories below:

other linguistics courses. other courses at the 300-level or higher with a ling number, including cross-listed courses. also, one of ling 209 or ling 210, but not both, may count toward the major.
cognate courses. each term, the linguistics department posts on its website a list of cognate courses from other departments that are pre-approved for the major. students may also request that courses not on this list count towards the major, following the guidelines linked here.
independent study/experiential coursework (at most 9 credits). independent study and experiential practice courses (as defined here) with a ling number may count towards the major, up to a combined total of 9 credits. for more details on independent studies, please see our guidelines.
study abroad & transfer credit. current students interested in studying abroad or taking courses at another institution must submit a request to pre-approve these courses. upon completion, students must provide material from the courses (such as the syllabus, lecture notes, and graded homework, papers, and exams) to confirm this pre-approval.
other department policies

double major. because the study of language is quite often interdisciplinary, a major in linguistics can be designed to integrate very well with other academic fields. as a result, it is very common for linguistics majors to also major in a second field. an lsa double major requires satisfying all of the requirements for the major of both programs. however, neither lsa nor the department of linguistics imposes any limit on "double-counting" courses between majors, allowing students to double-major with substantially fewer than 60 total major credits. (check with an advisor in the second major, though, to confirm their policy on shared courses)

residency

transfer students. upon matriculation, transfer students should submit a request for their transfer courses to receive linguistics credit as soon as possible.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the ling subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the honors major in linguistics requires completion of the requirements for the major and, in addition, a senior honors project leading to an honors thesis. the thesis must be written under the supervision of a faculty member of the department of linguistics and with permission of a department advisor. students may elect ling 495 and 496 when writing the honors thesis (but are not required to do so). finally, lsa requires students in an honors major to maintain a gpa of 3.4 or higher overall (not just in linguistics).

linguistics (major) (fall 2021 - summer 2023)
linguistics (major) (winter 2018 - summer 2021)
linguistics (major) (winter 2017 - fall 2017)
linguistics major (winter 2015-fall 2016)
linguistics major (fall 2012-fall 2014)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan