skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors middle eastern and north african studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
middle eastern and north african studies major
advising
department website

effective fall 2016

exclusions:

not open to those who elect a major in near eastern studies.

advising

the center for middle eastern and north african studies offers a multidisciplinary area major program to students who want to obtain a broad background on the modern middle east and north africa.

international institute (ii) undergraduate academic advisors will assist students in developing a program of study. students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment with an ii undergraduate advisor to discuss prerequisite courses, requirements, declaring, academic planning, course selection, registration, senior releases, and other matters of concern. for more information, visit the ii advising page.

prerequisites

one of the following first-year language sequences or the equivalent:

arabic 101 and 102
armenian 101 and 102
hebrew 101 and 102
persian 101 and 102
turkish 101 and 102

strongly recommended:

neareast 200 (introduction to the middle east)
aaptis 204 (introduction to islam)
requirements
minimum credits: 30

a minimum of 30 credits at the 200-level and above, chosen in consultation with and approved by the undergraduate department advisor. the courses chosen must include:

core courses
menas 493
one 300 or 400-level, advisor approved, course in anthropology, sociology, or women’s studies
history 443 and one additional 300 or 400-level, advisor approved, course in pre-1800 middle east history
political science, any one of the following: polsci 351, 352, 353.
menas language requirement for the major. one year of the following languages beyond the first year: arabic, armenian, hebrew, persian, or turkish.
electives. two approved electives, selected in consultation with the advisor, with appropriate middle east content.
distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the menas subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

special arrangements are made for qualified students to elect an honors major. candidates for an honors major undertake independent research which is reported in a senior honors thesis. prospective honors majors should consult with the honors department advisor before the end of the junior year and should enroll in one of the senior honors thesis courses approved by the advisor.

middle eastern and north african studies major (fall 2015-summer 2016)
middle eastern and north african studies major (summer 2014 - summer 2015)
middle eastern and north african studies major (effective through summer 2014)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan