skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors romance languages and literatures major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
romance languages and literatures major
advising
department website

effective winter 2026

advising

the department offers majors in french, italian, romance languages & literatures, and spanish. it offers minors in french, italian, portuguese, and spanish.

appointments are scheduled online or at the department office, 4108 modern languages building, (734) 764-5344.

grade policies

rll majors whose coursework includes any spanish, french, italian, or portug courses in the range of 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

prerequisites

same as those for majors in the individual languages:

french 230 or 232 or rclang 290 or rclang 310 for students of french
italian 230, 232, 233, or 410 for students of italian
portug 232 or 280 for students of portuguese
spanish 277 or rclang 324 for students of spanish

rll majors whose coursework includes any spanish, french, italian, or portug courses in the range of 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

requirements
minimum credits: 39

at least 39 credits consisting of the following:

i. a minimum of 33 credits of coursework from french, italian, portuguese, spanish, or catalan.  all of these courses must be taught in the target language and must also be courses that would count toward the individual language majors and minors.  students will choose two principal romance languages and take a minimum of 12 credits in each. they have the option of taking up to 9 credits in a third romance language, or of taking the remainder of the 33 credits in their principal languages. in each of the two principal languages, 6 credits in upper-level coursework are required ("upper-level" means: 300 or above in french and italian, 281 or above in portuguese, 400 or above in spanish and catalan). students can seek permission to advance more quickly to upper-level courses after completing:

french 235 and one french 250-299 or the equivalent
italian (any of the following)  230, 232, 233, or 410 or the equivalent 
portuguese (any of the following) 232, 280 or 281, or the equivalent
spanish (two courses, six credits) at 279-399-level or the equivalent 

ii. one course (minimum 3 credits) in the linguistics of the romance languages, preferably of a comparative nature.

iii. romlang 498, the upper-division seminar in rll.

the structure of requirement i enables students to choose between studying two or three languages, and between treating their languages more or less equally and having "primary" and "secondary" (and perhaps “tertiary”) languages.  requirement ii grounds the major in romance languages and literatures in an understanding of the linguistics of the romance languages.  all rll majors need to enroll in the upper-division seminar, romlang 498, during either their junior or senior year.  this seminar explores topics for which crossing boundaries among the romance languages can provide productive avenues of inquiry. a major component of the senior seminar involves individual research projects tailored to each student’s linguistic competences.

other department policies

study abroad

majors in romance languages and literatures are encouraged to consider the possibility of studying abroad for at least one of their languages.

residency

a minimum of 21 of the required 39 credits must be taken either in residence or through a study abroad program affiliated with the university of michigan

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the catalan, french, italian, portug, romlang, romling, and spanish subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

romance languages and literatures

qualified students may be admitted to a program of advanced study during their junior year (or at the beginning of the senior year following foreign study), leading to the degree of bachelor of arts with honors in romance languages and literatures. admission to senior-level honors work in romance languages and literatures is by application only (forms are available on the department website at www.lsa.umich.edu/rll). a grade point average of at least 3.4 in all courses, as well as a 3.5 in all courses taken for the major, is required for admission and for graduation with honors in romance languages and literatures.  the curriculum committee in romance languages and literatures expects applicants to present evidence of superior language skills and a serious interest in comparative research involving both of their languages and the cultures articulated through them.

romance languages and literatures honors majors are required to complete 42 credits of coursework and successfully defend a thesis:

course requirements:

at least 42 credits consisting of the following:

i. a minimum of 30 credits of coursework in 2 languages (from french, italian, portuguese, spanish, or catalan) that meet the following qualifications:

a minimum of 12 credits each in two romance languages, including at least 6 credits each in upper-level courses ("upper-level" means: 300 or above in french and italian, 281 or above in portuguese, 400 or above in spanish and catalan), with an overall minimum of 15 credits from upper-level courses.
all of these courses must be taught in the target language and must also be courses that would count toward the individual language majors.

ii. one course (minimum 3 credits) in the linguistics of the romance languages, preferably of a comparative nature.

iii. romlang 498, the upper-division seminar in rll.

iv. romlang 491 and 492, senior honors courses, normally taken in the fall and winter terms, respectively, of a student’s senior year.

thesis requirement:

composition of a thesis incorporating the results of individual research and demonstrating a substantial piece of work; and

a presentation and discussion of the thesis and of an agreed upon set of related readings with the student's faculty advisor and one other faculty reader.

working under the direction of a faculty member who serves as thesis director, the student will research the thesis, complete a bibliography and prospectus, and begin drafting the writing process while enrolled in romlang 491. in the following academic term the student will enroll in romlang 492 and complete the thesis and its presentation and discussion. 

teaching certificate

by taking a number of courses in each language beyond the requirements for the major in romance languages and literatures, students may qualify for teaching certification in both a major and a minor language.

students interested in obtaining a secondary teaching certificate should study the school of education's secondary education program options and spanish endorsement requirements on this website https://marsal.umich.edu/academics-admissions/epp#degrees-certifications

romance languages and literatures (major) (winter 2023 - fall 2025)
romance languages and literatures (major) (fall 2022)
romance languages and literatures (major) (winter 2022 - summer 2022)
romance languages and literatures (major) (winter 2020 - fall 2021)
romance languages and literatures (major) (fall 2019)
romance languages and literatures (major) (winter 2018 - summer 2019)
romance languages and literatures (major) (fall 2017)
romance languages and literatures (major) (winter 2013 - summer 2017)
romance languages and literatures major (fall 2011-fall 2013)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan