skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors russian, east european, and eurasian studies major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
russian, east european, and eurasian studies major
advising
department website

effective winter 2017

advising

the center for russian, east european, and eurasian studies offers a broad, interdisciplinary undergraduate curriculum for students who wish to acquire extensive knowledge of countries of the former soviet union and east central europe.

international institute (ii) undergraduate academic advisors will assist students in developing a program of study. students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment with an ii undergraduate advisor to discuss prerequisite courses, requirements, declaring, academic planning, course selection, registration, senior releases, and other matters of concern. for more information, visit the ii advising page.

prerequisites

one of the following first-year language sequences or the equivalent:

armenian 101 and 102
bcs 131 and 132
czech 141 and 142
polish 121 and 122
russian 101 and 102
russian 103/rclang 193
russian 123
ukr 151 and 152
yiddish 101/judaic 101/german 127 and yiddish 102/judaic 102/german 128

one of the following strongly recommended:

russian 231 (introduction to russian culture)
slavic 225 (arts and culture of central europe)
slavic 240 (introduction to slavic folklore)
requirements
minimum credits: 30

20 of the minimum 30 credits must be at the 300-level or above.

geographic distribution (8 credits):
at least two of the following courses:
reees 340 (central eurasia);
reees 395 (russia);
or reees 396 or 397 (eastern europe).
disciplinary distribution (9 credits):
at least one 3-credit upper-level course in each sub-area:
arts/culture,
history,
and social science.
seminar (3-4 credits):
one 400-level course with an extensive writing or research component on a reees-focused topic approved by the reees program director.
electives: additional advisor approved electives to reach the 30 minimum credits. electives may be drawn from advisor-approved courses related to reees topics including language courses beyond the 4th term (up to 8 credits) and study abroad coursework.
language requirement: students must show 6th term proficiency in russian or polish, or 4th term proficiency in another language of the region (excluding german).
other department policies

concurrent undergraduate/graduate studies (cugs) program

majors who are advanced in their studies and have exhausted the undergraduate resources in russian, east european , and eurasian studies are encouraged to talk with the crees advisor about applying for enrollment in lsa and the rackham graduate school through the concurrent undergraduate-graduate studies (cugs) program in lsa.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the reees subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

undergraduate majors who have maintained a 3.5 grade point average in the reees major and a 3.4 overall gpa qualify for admission to the honors plan. in addition to completing all college and reees graduation  requirements, honors majors complete a senior thesis that is judged worthy of honors designation by the thesis advisor and at least one other faculty reader. an honors major is not limited to students who have been in the college honors program in the first and second year. students with questions about the program are encouraged to schedule a meeting with an undergraduate academic advisor online at www.ii.umich.edu/crees.

russian, east european, and eurasian studies major (winter 2015 - fall 2016)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan