skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors sociology major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
sociology major
advising
department website

effective winter 2023

exclusions:

students may elect a subplan in sociology and social work, law, justice, and social change, or the sociology of health and medicine, but may only elect one subplan.

students pursuing a major in sociology with a ljsc subplan may not elect a minor in crime & justice. 

students who elect a sociology major with a subplan in social work and social change may not elect the following programs:
community action and social change minor (school of social work)
social theory and practice major (residential college)

advising

please review the advising page of the sociology website for full information on declaring a sociology major, sub-major, or minor, getting in touch by email, or scheduling an appointment.

a department advisor is available to discuss the choice of sociology as a major or minor, assist with course planning, and provide guidance on department opportunities. students may schedule an advising appointment using the online appointment scheduler linked here or email advising questions to socadvisor@umich.edu.

grade policies

students must earn at least a c– in the prerequisites for the major and in all courses they plan to include in the plan for the major. courses elected as pass/fail may not be included in the plan for the major.

prerequisites
students planning to major in sociology must elect and complete with a c- or better one of the following introductory courses before declaring the major: soc 100, 102, 300, 302.
first year students and sophomores electing an introductory course should elect soc 100 or soc 102.
juniors and seniors electing an introductory course should elect soc 300 or soc 302.
the prerequisite course cannot be included in the 33 credits required for completion of the plan for the major.
requirements
minimum credits: 33

after electing one of the introductory prerequisite courses, majors are required to complete at least 33 credits of soc coursework at the 200 level or above, including:

statistics: soc 210, stats 250, or stats 280 (or their equivalent)
research methods: soc 310. must be taken on um—ann arbor campus
sociological theory: soc 305. must be taken on um—ann arbor campus

the remaining credits must come from soc courses at the 200 level and above. 

a minimum of fourteen elective credits must be elected at the 300-level or above.  students who wish to focus their elective coursework on a particular area of sociology are encouraged to consult with the department advisor.

course planning

the research methods and statistics courses facilitate the understanding of sociological themes and concepts explored in upper-division courses. students are strongly encouraged to complete the statistics course in the sophomore year, the research methods course before the end of the junior year, and complete all three of the required courses before the final academic term of the senior year. students intending to write an honors thesis in sociology must take statistics before the first term of the junior year and the methods course no later than the second term of the junior year.

optional sub-majors:
law, justice, and social change
sociology of health and medicine
sociology and social work

constraints
credit limits and exclusions. a maximum of 6 credits in the major may come from soc 394 suro, soc 395, and soc 396.
the department will allow up to two courses with significant sociological content from other lsa departments or transfer institutions to be included in the plan for the major. students interested in petitioning to include a non-soc transfer course in their major should complete the petition process which includes submitting a petition form and the course syllabus.
residency

the department expects that at least 18 of the 33 credits required for a sociology major be completed with department of sociology faculty on the um–ann arbor campus. the research methods and sociological theory courses must be taken in residence on the um–ann arbor campus.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the soc subject area may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

effective fall 2019

the program begins with soc 497 (3 credits) in the second term of the junior year and continues through the senior year with soc 498 (3 credits) and 499 (3 credits). during soc 498 and 499, students work with the supervision of their faculty mentors, while continuing to meet individually with the faculty honors coordinator. soc 497 is offered in the winter term only.  these three courses may be used toward the general electives in the major but may not be used as sub-major electives.

honors application prerequisites and course planning

applicants to the honors program in sociology demonstrate originality in their coursework, show a serious interest in scholarly research, and give evidence of their ability to work independently on a thesis. students should plan on completing soc 210 or stats 250 prior  to enrolling in soc 497 and should take soc 310 prior to or concurrently with it. the honors program in sociology is a three-semester sequence of course and thesis work. students typically apply as first-semester juniors and begin with the first course, soc 497, the following semester.

to graduate with honors, students must meet all requirements for the major; complete soc 497, 498, and 499; write an acceptable honors thesis; and maintain a 3.4 overall gpa. upon completion of this course work and dependent upon the evaluation of the thesis, the academic record and diploma will designate the degree awarded "with honors," "with high honors," or "with highest honors."

interested students should visit the website to make an appointment with the department advisor.

law, justice, and social change (sub-major) (winter 2023 - )
sociology of health & medicine (sub-major) (winter 2023 - )
sociology and social work (sub-major) (winter 2023 - )
sociology (major) (fall 2019 - fall 2022)
sociology and social work (sub-major) (fall 2019 - fall 2022)
sociology (major) (winter 2019 - summer 2019)
sociology (major) (winter 2017 - fall 2018)
sociology of health & medicine (sub-major) (winter 2017 - fall 2022)
law, justice, and social change (sub-major) (fall 2014 - fall 2022)
sociology major (fall 2014 - fall 2016)
sociology major (winter 2013-summer 2014)
sociology major (fall 2012 - fall 2013)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan