skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors social theory and practice major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
social theory and practice major
advising
department website

effective winter 2026

advising

you can schedule an advising appointment with the stp major program advisor by going to the residential college's academic services and advising website (click on “make an advising appointment,” select “major” for your new appointment reason, and then choose “major - social theory and practice”). 

prerequisites
rcstp 260: theorizing knowledge in the social sciences (3 credits)
rcstp 290: designing your stp major proposal (1 credit)
note: rcstp 260+290 are ideally taken simultaneously, usually during second semester sophomore year
a social science “gateway” course (3-4 credits): students select from a variety of options, including rcstp 101 or a 200-level course that introduces students to topics and questions within the interdisciplinary social sciences. some common (but not exclusive) examples include 200-level courses from rcstp; wgs; psych; aas; amcult; anthro; environ; and soc. confirm your selection with the stp advisor.
requirements
minimum credits: 30

a requirements checklist for the stp major is available on the residential college's website.

all students take an rcstp theory course and a research methods course:  

rcstp theory course (choose one):
rcstp 301: social theory for social change
rcstp 302: contemporary social and cultural theory
research methods course (choose one; options include but are not limited to):
stats 250: introduction to statistics and data analysis
qmss 201: intro to quantitative methods in the social sciences
soc 210: introduction to statistics for social science
soc 310: sociological research methods

additionally, students complete a minimum of 18 credits – at least six upper-level courses (300-level or above) – exploring and informing the student’s self-identified social justice interests, questions, approaches, theories, and practices. these courses are selected in rcstp 290, but can also be taken before a student takes 290 and can be modified in conversation with the stp advisor as the student progresses through the major. these 18 credits include:

a second social theory course (at least 3 credits)
a community engaged-learning/practicum course (at least 3 credits)
common selections include classes in the prison creative arts program (pcap), the spanish language internships program (slip), telling it, palma, semester in detroit (sid), project community in sociology, and project outreach in psychology.
at least 4 electives

students enroll in a capstone in the fall of their senior year: 

rcstp 490: stp capstone - senior project seminar

all stp students complete a self-designed senior project within rcstp 490. these projects can take many forms, including a traditional, 25-35 page research paper; a shorter paper analyzing and reflecting on justice-focused community-engaged work; and/or creative projects such as performances, installations, documentaries, etc., accompanied by research-informed write-ups.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, rcstp 260 may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

the stp honors thesis is an ambitious, 3-semester project that begins in a student’s second semester junior year, when they take the junior honors thesis section of rcstp 320. enrollment in this course is by-permission only, and prospective students meet with the stp advisor to discuss their interest and plans for the honors thesis during fall of junior year.

students use the honors thesis proposal that they develop in rcstp 320 as their application to continue with the stp honors thesis; applications are due at the beginning of may during a student’s junior year and are reviewed by a committee of stp faculty members. the application must include a commitment from a faculty member to serve as the student’s honor thesis advisor for the subsequent year.

if the application is accepted, students continue working on their honors thesis during the fall of their senior year while taking rcstp 490 - their honors thesis is their stp senior project - and the honors thesis continues with an independent study (rccore 490) during their second semester senior year.

additional details – including the honors thesis application and mentor agreement forms – will be provided to interested students. students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment or reach out directly to the stp program head with any questions.

social theory and practice (major) (fall 2015 - fall 2025)
social theory and practice major (fall 2014-summer 2015)
social theory and practice major (fall 2011-summer 2014)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan