skip to content
u-m// lsa// departments and units// majors and minors// look to michigan// lsa course guide// lsa gateway
keyword search of en
about academics research news and events support lsa  course catalog  give online

for

 prospective students current students alumni and friends faculty and staff
skip to page content
 
academics majors and minors spanish major
academics
majors and minors
departments and units
courses
lsa degrees
lsa requirements
lsa academic policies and procedures
lsa commitment to academic freedom
dates and deadlines
academic integrity
engaged learning
stem
business
what will you do with an lsa degree?
spanish major
advising
department website

effective winter 2026

advising

the department offers majors in french, italian, romance languages & literatures, and spanish. it offers minors in french, italian, portuguese, and spanish.

appointments are scheduled online or at the department office, 4108 modern languages building, (734) 764-5344.

grade policies

spanish majors whose coursework includes any courses in the range of spanish 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

prerequisites

spanish 277.  for eligible students, spanish 278, spanish for heritage language learners, can be substituted for spanish 277.

the spanish 277 prerequisite will be waived for residential college students who complete one rclang 324: readings in spanish class. residential college students may use rclang 324 toward their spanish major 279-399 level course requirements, including the first rclang 324 course used to satisfy the major's prerequisite.

spanish majors whose coursework includes any courses in the range of spanish 100 - 231 may elect to take these courses for a grade or pass/fail. 

 

 

requirements
minimum credits: 30

a minimum of 10 courses (30 approved credits), of at least 3 credits each, beyond the prerequisite.

required courses in spanish:

4-5 courses of at least 3 credits each from spanish courses numbered 279 to 399; up to three terms of rclang 324 may also be used to meet this requirement
5-6 courses of at least 3 credits each from spanish courses at the 400-level

electives/cognates.

approved courses in other fields, if taught in spanish, may also count as electives in spanish.
students may count only one of italian 410 or port 280 toward the spanish major.
one approved optional cognate course (3 credits), taught in english in the area of hispanic studies, is allowed.
students are encouraged to develop a balanced program of study that addresses the cultural production of various countries and historical periods.
constraints
no more than one independent study and one internship course (6 credits) can be included in the major/minor.
each course counted toward the major must be at least 3 credits.
residency

a minimum of 5 courses of at least 3 credits each for the major must be taken either in residence or through a study- abroad program affiliated with the university of michigan.

distribution policy

no course used to fulfill a major requirement may be used toward the lsa distribution requirement. in addition, courses in the catalan, french, italian, portug, romlang, romling, and spanish subject areas may not be used toward the distribution requirement.

honors

qualified students may be admitted to a program of advanced study during their junior year (or at the beginning of the senior year following foreign study), leading to the degree of a bachelor's in spanish with honors. admission to senior-level honors work in spanish is by application only (forms are available on the department website at www.lsa.umich.edu/rll). a grade point average of at least 3.4 in all courses, and of 3.5 in spanish major courses, is required for admission and for graduation with honors in spanish.  the honors committee expects applicants to demonstrate superior ability for their level in both oral and written spanish, and to present evidence of serious interest in research.

spanish honors majors are required to complete 33 credits of coursework and successfully defend a thesis:

course requirements:

11 courses (33 credits total): all regular spanish major requirements must be completed (30 credits) with an additional 3-credit spanish course at the 400-level.  6 of the required 33 credits (and of the required 18 credits at the 400 level) will consist of spanish 491 and 492, senior honors courses, normally taken in the fall and winter terms, respectively, of a student’s senior year.

thesis requirement:

composition of a thesis, in spanish, incorporating the results of individual research, demonstrating a substantial piece of work ; and


a presentation and discussion of the thesis and of an agreed upon set of related readings with the student's faculty advisor and one other faculty reader.

working under the direction of a faculty member who serves as thesis director, the student will research the thesis, complete a bibliography and prospectus, and begin drafting the writing process while enrolled in spanish 491.

in the following academic term the student will enroll in spanish 492 and complete the thesis and its presentation and discussion.

teaching certificate

students interested in obtaining a secondary teaching certificate should study the school of education's secondary education program options and spanish endorsement requirements on this website: https://marsal.umich.edu/academics-admissions/epp#degrees-certifications

 

 

spanish (major) (fall 2025)
spanish (major) (fall 2022 - summer 2025)
spanish (major) (fall 2017 - summer 2022)
spanish (major) (winter 2016 - summer 2017)
spanish major (fall 2014-fall 2015)
spanish major (fall 2012-winter 2014)
information for
prospective students
current students
faculty and staff
alumni and friends
more about lsa
about lsa
how do i apply?
news
lsa magazine
give
maps
student resources
courses
academic advising
majors and minors
departments and units
global studies
lsa opportunity hub
connect
social media
update contact info
contact us
privacy statement
report feedback
© 2026 regents of the university of michigan